all right I think this is an exercise
that's kind of meaningful for you and
you and you to do on your own sitting at
your own computer or make your own
YouTube video in response to this one I
think it's actually meaningful to
reflect in your own life and ask
yourself what is the most conservative
thing I have ever done or said and ask
yourself also what's the most left-wing
thing I've ever done is that and this is
not merely meaningful because it's a
reflection on Who am I and what's the
meaning of my life it's meaningful also
because it forces us to reflect on what
is this political category called
conservative what does that mean now on
2019 I don't think it means the same
thing in 2019 that it meant in 1999 and
I think right now the very concept of
what it is to be a conservative it's
really quite unstable it's really quite
volatile and shifting even if people who
are like political insiders within that
category you know they may not have any
clear plan or vision of what this is
supposed to be or become in the future
but that that can make it all the more
unstable right
oh I don't consider myself a
conservative I would never describe
myself as conservative but I know there
are reasons why other people sometimes
describe me as conservative and it's not
because like I'm in the middle of a
political movement where people share
the the ideology of john sack hearts
capitalism
there are props you gotta stop shared a
sign for post-capitalist up
yes comrades money isn't even real it's
imaginary we're destroying the biosphere
something that's real for money
something that's imaginary that makes
zero sense
[Music]
you know jeonse a car is like the bad
stereotype of the ante anti-capitalist
fool the last time I saw that guy he was
wearing sneakers like Nike sneakers
brand name sneakers but he had covered
up the logo with the words and the
caption so you know when you show up at
an event and everyone is like so far on
the left wing that they're like degrees
separated from from communism and in
some cases they're overtly Cometh yeah
in some contexts people perceive me as a
conservative anyway that the topic of
this video came up I was having a
sincere and somewhat deep conversation
with JJ McCullough about what is the
meaning of the word conservative I said
you know exactly this way I challenge it
when you reflect on your own life do you
have a story do you have an anecdote we
think yeah that was the most
conservative thing and he did he had he
had a story one came to mind so the word
conservative still means something you
know what I mean
if we're fighting on your life you can
come up with all that that's gonna
indicate to you that maybe even just
implicitly maybe just in an unexamined
way you still have a strong sense of
what the word conservative means and
maybe in your case it's something you
did you know in a kind of spontaneous
sir or unplanned way anyway Jigme colas
got to make his own video telling that
story it's not my story to tell us it's
a good anecdote though um for me
reflecting on that you know what came to
mind was this bizarre situation when I
was living in Cambodia doing social
science research and at that time I was
a member of the Buddhist faith and I
would describe myself actively as an
Orthodox tera vaada Buddhist and a lot
of people here in the decadent West
imagined that Buddhism is a tremendously
liberal and liberating religion well it
is if you were born Muslim
if you were born Muslim and you convert
to tear about of Buddhism you'd find it
very liberal and liberating no doubt
probably if you were born conservative
Jewish conservative Catholic would have
you
however the religion itself is in many
ways fundamentally conservative as even
the adjective Orthodox might suggest to
you and I was a scholar in the religion
I was studying the ancient texts and I
had the feeling a feeling I still can't
quite shake that most of what was wrong
and bad with the religion things that
had crept in afterwards later historical
accretions
or corruptions and that you know if the
religion could kind of clean up its act
[Laughter]
yeah not gonna make this into a video
about Buddhism but I big-spending this
is the context for for why in this sense
in this anecdote I said it did the most
conservative thing it ever did in my
life so living in Cambodia I'm pursuing
a combination of humanitarian work and
research and it's including at this time
oh and also languages in history and
politics all that stuff too but at this
time I'm earning my money doing research
in the humanitarian sector and there's a
new client announced at the firm's it's
a for-profit company doing research in
the nonprofit sector tricky business
the new client is Mary Stopes well if
you don't know the name Mary Stopes
the worst stereotypes you could possibly
have about 19th century eugenics and
racism all of the like conservative
fear-mongering about Planned Parenthood
all the stuff that's [ __ ] about
Planned Parenthood it's literally true
of Mary Stopes and she took these crazy
theories and prejudices of 19th century
eugenics and she brought them into the
20th century let me tell
we literally have you know evidence of
Mary Stopes writing letters to Adolf
Hitler for approving of Adolf Hitler
approving of them because of his
eugenics that were and racism we have
tones and tones of her explaining her
insane you know racial theories and
these theories they really did her
people you know she specifically
endorsed um you know kind of slow-motion
genocide by sterilizing men with x-rays
you know having x-rays intentionally put
on the testicles to sterilize them and
when I was doing research on Canada's
native people Canada's First Nations or
American Indians whatever you want to
say you know I've read accounts of that
being done of men being sterilized
through exactly these racist eugenic
policies those were government policy
primarily in the westernmost provinces
the two problems is furthest west some
very interesting history but these were
influential ideas the worst kind of
proto Nazi I mean and she was an elitist
a lot of her theories about abortion and
birth control were all about repressing
and suppressing poor people and she
actually I mean in a sense she was worse
than Adolf Hitler because she actually
wanted to divide up everyone in the
population she wanted to classify the
population of England and give them a
grade for how good their DNA was like a1
a2 a3 b1 beaten she actually wanted a
social hierarchy of who was allowed to
breed and how much and this kind of
thing she wanted forced breeding of the
best people and forced sterilization
there were people this is [ __ ] the
nightmare or client for me in every way
all right I mean I'm an orthodox
terribad a Buddhist at least in my own
mind you know genetically and
ancestrally I'm Jewish I'm not a member
of the Jewish religion so my family has
a direct connection to the horrible
history of you know genocide 'el
eugenics theories of this kind and I'm
Canadian I'm from Canada I grew up
in the ashen remains of the tragedy of
Canada's own slow-motion genocide that
much included these these same British
Empire eugenics theories and themes and
you know I'm at the office when this
comes in okay the new the new project is
this and we're gonna have I'm gonna have
a small meeting that's why were there
for people to talk about this new this
new client this new project and I go
through the the internet really quick
cuz I've got a double you know this
isn't something I like a studied
intention like going through the okay I
better double-check what I think I know
about Mary Stopes
this foundation and it's you know
history of eugenics say I think I went
to archive.org
and you know I'm looking at like the act
like it you know are digitized archive
photograph of the the letter she wrote a
to Hitler all this horrible stuff out of
her personal life and horrible racist
theories new you're looking at you know
like a photograph of the first printing
whether you're seeing the real document
good you know I go to this meeting
and this is this is the most
conservative thing I've ever done said
look guys I'm an Orthodox Tara betta
books okay I see my future in my career
as being a scholar in that religion as
doing humanitarian work in that religion
as working with Buddhist monasteries
working with Twitter sucks and this
stuff you know like this is what I see
if my future okay if this company is
gonna do a project its Mary Stopes
foundation well you know a name Mary
Stopes that's directly linked to eat off
his book you know it's directly linked
to eugenics and racism and it's not just
abortion as a vague concept here you
know this this is really loaded um my
name can't be on ok I can't have my name
on anything I can't be involved I can't
I can't be part of authoring this report
or doing this research as I know look
I'm not gonna walk out of the room or
something I'm not gonna protest not
gonna obstruct you but look you guys you
have enough researchers in this company
assign somebody else do it because my
name
can't be and that was that was a real
conservative moment and you know
everyone the rooms like whoa I mean I
remember there was one guy in the room
he had a PhD at that time he was
cheating on his wife with a Cambodian
prostitute it was the most expensive
kind of Cambodian prostitute it was a
karaoke singer I never met her never saw
her within like a week of us having that
conversation the prostitute I maybe
should phone his house or something
somehow his wife discovered the
prostitute his wife packed up and left
that night destroyed his marriage his
whole life was ruined
really the particular circumstances were
terrible he was living his you know
ridiculous self-indulgent life I
remember this this guy this guy is
sleeping with a prostitute yeah he was
that he was an Australian with a PhD in
psychology he just finished his PhD if
he hadn't actually received the paper
yet you know he said well you know Mary
stove's you know she approved of Adolf
Hitler but that was before and I said to
him before what before mine cops I
wasn't I wasn't laughing then yeah so
you know I've made a video already
stating my view on abortion I think I'm
a moderate on that I don't think my
position on is left-wing or conservative
but I've had fan mail from both left
wingers and conservatives saying wow you
know your approach to the issue
something new it's something different
it's maybe something positive because
right now certainly the United States of
America and in other countries too the
whole question of whether or not you can
have a meaningful discourse between
conservative and whatever the other
whatever the opposite of conservative is
it's very much hung up on this one point
of the legality of abortion capitalism
capitalism I'm trying to live on not
much money but you're even going farther
with that in living without money yes
I'm just sharing with you so you're
helping me live without money yes and
you've done a lot of coach surfing like
I have it's been over three years now
where I haven't paid rent anywhere I've
just been traveling around and
couchsurfing and what I'm I home base is
still the Niagara region Toronto area
for me and I have siblings who have let
me I stay with them and I try to help
boats and but I know sometimes I still
feel like a mooch once in a while and
you said you've experienced that sooo a
little bit maybe maybe feeling like a
mooch how do you deal with that I'd say
I feel the perception from others that
they think were mooches and I don't want
them to feel that way it's I think a
condition of the way that we are grown
up in the community they don't want they
don't think so much about the waste the
overproduction they want everyone to
participate in the community even if we
have an overabundance and it's not being
shared and there's people's needs not
being met that don't have money to have
those needs met in that system so yeah I
think some people think ok yeah great
you're a freegan but you're using my
money you're using my couch you're using
my food you're using my car I would hope
that they would be open to consider it
as sharing system so sagen closed the
video I do not consider myself a
conservative it's not a term I used to
describe Who I am or what I do much less
what I believe but it's interesting why
other people call me a conservative I
was on an internet discussion forum
voice voice Jack and then I was screamed
at and insulted and kicked out by a left
winger left winger who was a moderator
because as she said
my insistence on facts and statistics
was implicitly right-wing that was the
obstacle II so real quick two topics
that came up where I was taking a facts
and figures approach to reality other
people in the chat just said really
lazily oh well you know Japan has a
really high suicide rate now of course
they were saying this as one step on an
ideological staircase they're building
their case they're building up to you
know a much a much wilder left-wing
hypothesis but I'm not interested in the
crazy ideological claims now wait wait
wait a minute
why do you say Japan has a high suicide
rate compared to the United States
compared to Russia compared to what
let's let's do a Google search here
let's talk about it what is the rate of
suicide Japan and why do you think that
where did you get that assumption from
right that's what I'm interested in and
you know guess what if you do a Google
search go ahead you compare the suicide
rate in Japan United States and Russia -
are your own conclusions but what's
interesting to me and that conversation
is where did your assumption come from
like how did this become a left wing
talking point and another conversation I
think this is the one where she freaked
out and kicked me Elvis and this in this
context one or the other I was in the
middle of a conversation with people
about drug policy well you know what
that wasn't even the table conversation
someone just jumped on the mic and
started justifying some crazy left-wing
ideological claims by pointing to
Switzerland and Portugal and claiming
that drugs have been totally legalized
they're claiming that like in
Switzerland and Portugal anyone can just
buy cocaine and anyone can just buy
heroin the same way you buy a tube of
toothpaste it's completely legalized and
they were claims that's only step one
then we get into the next step building
this ideological stairway to heaven
the next claim is that since this
happened crime wait crime rates declined
dramatically and the rate of drug use in
the rate of drug addiction declined
dramatically the people were using less
and less
cocaine less and less heroin because now
it was legal readily available and wait
I think we're just a few Google searches
away shall we shall we just find out
what the actual law and courts and
procedures are it's Switzerland and
Portugal yeah that was something I've
done a little bit of reading about
earlier because of a debate that took
place on this channel debate that ended
my friendship or the person I was
debating with so I had an idea
you know what just a few Google searches
there's some good articles on that and
guess what the first step the first step
on your stairway to heaven is false so
can we talk about that can we talk about
the facts good so we live in a time
where that trait makes you right-wing or
makes you conservative that tells us
something about what does the left-wing
category mean who do they think they are
and it may tell us something indirectly
about what is the conservative category
who do they think they are or who now in
the next 10 years is going to migrate
over to that category and start creating
a new idea of the future because they
have no other place on the political
spectrum that they can be people like to
disrespect my truth but the fact is that
you know my name is I don't know